# Discussion Post

## 3 Interesting Statistics

1. Manufacturing sales have increased for the third consecutive month. In July, manufacturing sales increased by 7.0%. This increase can be attributed to the whopping 24.1% increase in transportation equipment sales in July. I was amazed by these statistics. One would think that high unemployment rates and a complete economic shutdown during a pandemic would cause people to save their money and not buy cars. However, the statistics show the complete opposite.

2. On March 11th, Canada announced CERB ( Canada Emergency Response Benefit). By the end of that same week, grocery sales had increased by 38% compared to their average sales in 2019. This is 16% higher than revenues reported in the weeks before Christmas, the busiest shopping weeks. The increase in sales is most likely not caused by people getting CERB and spending it immediately. The increase is most likely caused by WHO (world health organization) declaring Covid-19 a pandemic. This caused people to start stocking up on supplies. Personal care and household cleaning products were the goods that increased the most in sales. Hand sanitizer and gloves and masks increased in sales by 639% and 377%, respectively, in the week ending March 14th. That is much higher than toilet paper that hit a peak of 241% increase in sales despite the extensive media coverage of people hoarding massive amounts of it.

3. I was surprised when I found out that every household is legally required to complete a census questionnaire. I always thought that the census was conducted by collecting information that you already supplied to the government, such as tax information. Additionally, I wasn't aware of the scale Statistics Canada collected data for their census. However, now I know that the census includes information on practically everything in Canada.

# Reflection

Many courses that I've taken, such as English and history, have had evaluations that require research, namely persuasive essays. For these essays, I would spend most of my time researching as I always struggled to get supporting data for my arguments. Most of the data I would find would be fished out of articles from news websites or educational websites. Since I am a slow reader, these articles would take me at least 10-20mins to read, and I would be reading dozens of articles for each essay. This activity taught me how to use Statistic Canada's Website, a great resource to find data with concise explanations. I was always intimidated by their website because I would get confused by the number of sections and categories whenever I used it. However, after spending a good hour browsing the categories, not looking for anything particular, I've gotten a lay of the land. Consequently, whenever I have to research for an assignment, I will use Statistic Canada's website since I now know the different sections. Using Statistics Canada will immensely cut down on the time it takes me to do research, and I'll have more time focusing on the written content.
